Packing/README.md, before:

# Packing

This ldmx-sw module is focused on interfacing between the raw, binary data coming out of LDMX's different subsystems 
and the centralized, hierachical data that is used for the rest of our processing chain.

The hierarchical objects that are most similar to the raw binary data are the "digi" objects.
These objects (especially the HgcrocDigiCollection) directly reference the encoded words that are a part of the raw binary files.

This raw-digi conversion is done in two steps.

## 1. Merge
Merge the various raw files coming off simultaneouslly from the different subsystems into a single file. 
At this time, we also partially unpack the binary files into a ROOT TTree that can be fed into ldmx-sw.
By "partially" I mean we only unpack the binary files in a way that is uniform across all subsystems.
This way, we can isolate any subsystem/chip-specific decoding to the second step.

This step is meant to be isolated from ldmx-sw so hardware close to the detector that does
this merging does not need a full build of ldmx-sw to function.

I have heard front-end people refer to this step as "Event Building".
Step 2 below basically assumes that the product of the "Event Building" step is a ROOT
file with the data organized in the structure described above.

### Raw Data Object
The layout of a raw data file (after the "event building" or "merging" step but before the "unpacking" step)
is slightly hierarchical.

```yaml
ROOT TFile :
  ROOT TTree (LDMX_RawData) :
    TBranch (run_number) : int
    TBranch (event_number) : int
    TBranch (time_stamp) : long int
    ... other event data ...
    TBranch (data) : std::map<std::string,std::vector<unsigned char>>
  ROOT TTree (LDMX_Run) :
    TBranch (run_number) : int
    ... other run data ...
```

The idea is to have this `RawEventFile` be a stepping-stone to the fully hierarchical `EventFile`.
The majority of the data from the different subsystems is grouped into the `data` branch of `LDMX_RawData`
into a `std::map` from a helpful name to a buffer for all the data from that stream for a single event.

## 2. Unpack
Finish unpacking the encoded data by utilising chip-specific decoding routines.
We can then create the "digi" objects that can be utilized by further reconstruction steps.

This step is meant to be _the_ translation step from "online" data to "offline" data (ldmx-sw).

Each dynamically-loaded translator is available to be matched with a specific element in the `data`
map and can be used to decode the buffer stored in that map. The Unpacker processor handles the
event-constant information by default (the other branches), but the translators also are given the full
handle to the event bus.

## Band Aids
While we are waiting to nail down the specifics of the readout of the various subsystems,
we will need some extra code to insert the expected header information that will surround
the raw files currectly being read off a stand-a-lone chip.

Specifically, I have written a short program `hexa-decode` which converts the files output
by the software I'm using to test an HGC ROC into the form detailed above.

Commit message:

modify ROOT-based raw data format to align with requirements
ROOT supports a std::map but requires us to still create a dictionary
for it. I want to avoid having to create a dictionary anywhere outside
ldmx-sw, so I've modified the format to be a series of branches instead
of a single branch with a std::map.

Packing/README.md, after:

# Packing

This ldmx-sw module is focused on interfacing between the raw, binary data coming out of LDMX's different subsystems 
and the centralized, hierachical data that is used for the rest of our processing chain.

The hierarchical objects that are most similar to the raw binary data are the "digi" objects.
These objects (especially the HgcrocDigiCollection) directly reference the encoded words that are a part of the raw binary files.

This raw-digi conversion is done in two steps.

## 1. Merge
Merge the various raw files coming off simultaneouslly from the different subsystems into a single file. 
At this time, we also partially unpack the binary files into a ROOT TTree that can be fed into ldmx-sw.
By "partially" I mean we only unpack the binary files in a way that is uniform across all subsystems.
This way, we can isolate any subsystem/chip-specific decoding to the second step.

This step is meant to be isolated from ldmx-sw so hardware close to the detector that does
this merging does not need a full build of ldmx-sw to function.

I have heard front-end people refer to this step as "Event Building".
Step 2 below basically assumes that the product of the "Event Building" step is a ROOT
file with the data organized in the structure described above.

### Raw Data Object
The layout of a raw data file (after the "event building" or "merging" step but before the "unpacking" step)
is slightly hierarchical.

```yaml
ROOT TFile :
  ROOT TTree (LDMX_RawData) :
    TBranch (data_stream0) : std::vector<uint64_t>
    TBranch (data_stream1) : std::vector<uint64_t>
    ... other event data ...
  ROOT TTree (LDMX_Run) :
    TBranch (run_number) : int
    ... other run data ...
```

The idea is to have this `RawEventFile` be a stepping-stone to the fully hierarchical `EventFile`.
The majority of the data from the different subsystems is grouped into the various branches of `LDMX_RawData`.
Each "data stream" is given a branch of `std::vector<uint64_t>` to copy its buffer for a single event into.
The name of the branch is how a translator for that buffer is chosen.

## 2. Unpack
Finish unpacking the encoded data by utilising chip-specific decoding routines.
We can then create the "digi" objects that can be utilized by further reconstruction steps.

This step is meant to be _the_ translation step from "online" data to "offline" data (ldmx-sw).

Each dynamically-loaded translator is available to be matched with a specific element in the `data`
map and can be used to decode the buffer stored in that map. The Unpacker processor handles the
event-constant information by default (the other branches), but the translators also are given the full
handle to the event bus.

## Band Aids
While we are waiting to nail down the specifics of the readout of the various subsystems,
we will need some extra code to insert the expected header information that will surround
the raw files currectly being read off a stand-a-lone chip.

Specifically, I have written a short program `hexa-decode` which converts the files output
by the software I'm using to test an HGC ROC into the form detailed above.
